RAGUNATHAN M
+91 9994763414 | raghunathan731@gmail.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/ragunathan-m

Work Experience (6 Years)

PayU, Chennai	Jul 2022 - Present
Senior Software Engineer
Collaborated with Visa, MasterCard, Amex, and NPCI to integrate new EMVCo version upgrades into our platform by developing and deploying critical code changes. Led end-to-end certification processes, ensuring compliance and improving transaction success rates for 40+ banks processing 2M+ daily transactions.
Developed and integrated an EMI option within the authentication page, enabling seamless EMI issuance, the solution was well-received and appreciated by top management.
Improved fraud detection by implementing device ID tracking, reducing fraud.
Coordinated performance improvements across modules, identifying and fixing key bottlenecks.
Enhanced application performance by fixing 20+ critical deadlocks in 4+ databases, cutting response times by 30%.
Redesigned the core authentication engine to handle 5M+ daily transactions during peak sales periods.
Designed and optimized 150+ database calls to improve performance and reduce query latency.
Developed a lean service model, resolving 100+ bugs and refactoring 50+ methods, reducing support cost.
Integrated SSO, LDAP, and 2FA authentication, reducing login steps and improving security while decreasing login times by 40%.
Improved UI performance by optimizing front-end code, reducing the size of assets (images, scripts, and stylesheets), and implementing lazy loading for non-essential components.
Led a team of 3+ developers in a successful codebase migration, increasing system efficiency by 20% while managing 1.5M+ daily transactions.
Ensured software reliability through 200+ unit tests, reducing production bugs by 30%.
Automated scripts, increasing project efficiency and improving scalability.
Conducted code reviews and provided relevant feedback to support robust code quality, compliance to best practices, and continuous improvement.
I was hands-on in addressing customer support tickets and fielding queries from other internal service teams.
Developed across SDLC and CI/ CD pipeline.
Financial Software and Systems, Chennai	Jul 2019 – Jul 2022
Software Engineer
Proficient in e-commerce payment architecture, leveraging ACS V1.1.0 and 3D Secure to deliver secure, efficient, and user-friendly transaction experiences.
Skilled in end-to-end e-commerce payment flows, optimizing security, UX, and transaction efficiency.
Demonstrated success in improving payment processing systems, leading to enhanced system performance, reduced latency, and superior user outcomes.
Skills
Core Skills: Java, JavaScript, Data Structure & Algorithms, System Design
Frameworks & Libraries: Spring Boot, Spring cloud, Vert.X [Reactive Framework], React JS,  JUnit
Technologies: Microservices, Apache Kafka, Redis cache, Oracle DB
Tools & Platforms: Jenkins, Maven, Gradle, NPM, Nginx, Grafana, Linux, Git
Education 

K Ramakrishnan College of Engineering- Anna University				   Jun 2016 - Apr 2019
Bachelor of Engineering in Electronics and Communications Engineering		
